Introduction:

This document covers the necessary steps to make sure that changes to Forms in Drupal are also made to the front end to maintain operation.

Individuals performing these tasks will need access to Drupal. Individuals will also need to make sure to have developer access. Additionally, the application is only accessible via the VA Network for the production and demo environment.  If the individual is not on the VA Network they will receive the error ‘site can not be reached’.  There are two ways to access the VA Network; VPN or SOCKS proxy.

There are two ways to log in. The preferred email to use is the VA email.

1. PIV login

2. Username/Password Login

[https://prod.cms.va.gov/](https://prod.cms.va.gov/)

There is a demo environment. To login to the demo, environment go to xxxxx.To log in, the individual will use their username and the default password is Drupal8.

[https://cms-training-1hegto5jxzzxaqtrkgv1fqcvatavb4rr.demo.cms.va.gov/](https://cms-training-1hegto5jxzzxaqtrkgv1fqcvatavb4rr.demo.cms.va.gov/)

How to view Forms:

 1. Click manage in the upper left-hand corner of the toolbar
 2. Click content from the manage drop down that appears
 3. Once content is selected a blue selection toolbar will appear
 4. Select VA Forms
 5. This allows to narrow down to just the search for forms


To search for a specific form type the form name, title, or number in the search field

Select filter and the results will populate below

How to edit a form: (editing should be managed by the individuals responsible for the content)

1. Follow the above directions for viewing

2. Select edit for the form you would like to edit

>Not all fields will be editable

3. There are four actions available for editing as well:

· Break lock node

· Delete content

· Update URL alias

· Publish latest revision

How to view changes:

1. In the top right select flagged

2. Any changes that have been made will appear automatically in this section

3. The forms will appear with specific flags identifying the change i.e. new form, changed title

4. 8 content types can be filtered in the dropdown if the individual would like to drill down further. This step is not really necessary as the forms won’t change in large quantities

5. f you do filter the URL will change, if the individual will only ever need to view those specific forms it would be a good idea to bookmark the URL

6. When clicking on a form the form will appear with the associated revision history

7. Once the appropriate changes have been made it is up to the Product Manager to remove the flag indicating it has been completed

8. The form change/addition and the flag should be removed simultaneously

Best practices for monitoring:

The suggested monitoring is once a week as right now this is a manual process. Kevin Walsh’s team is implementing automated notifications shortly to remove the manual work. This will allow the individual to plan appropriately for upcoming sprints.

Video Recording- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ATXiSQq1b8

