Research Plan for the Employee Experience Team, Maximum CFIs Refinements, Dec 26th, 2023
Background
The VA receives many claims for increase (CFIs) for conditions where a Veteran is already at the maximum rating for that condition. In most cases, the condition will be “confirmed and continued” by a claims processor. We’d like to reduce the amount of time claims processors spend on these contentions by reducing the number of claims for increase Veterans file in this situation.

This research will test refinements to the design that has been shaped with two prior rounds of qualitative testing plus an ongoing A/B test in production. The prototypes we’ll test in this round will focus on the Rated Disabilities screen within the online 526 application, where our current A/B intervention exists.

The designs in this round will focus on:
Strengthening the visibility and persuasiveness of the max rating notification.
Making educational content available to help Veterans understand their max rating situation and options.
Product Brief
OCTO Priorities and Veteran Journey
This work supports OCTO Priority 7: Fast-track disability claims, starting with PACT Act claims, and it fits into the Veteran Journey in the Living Civilian Life phase. It’s related to the Moment That Matters called “Managing primary care and chronic health issues.” 
Research Goals
Assess usability of the refined design, especially for people who use assistive technology
Determine which of two different designs is more effective for presenting education content around maximum standard ratings. 
Assess how well the explanatory content works for Veterans.
Outcome
Accessibility assessment: 
Identify needed changes
Explanatory content:
Decide how to display the explanatory content
Identify shortcomings in the content\
Research questions
Goal 1: Assess usability of the refined design, especially for people who use assistive technology
Are users able to successfully complete the basic task of selecting checkboxes and then selecting Continue?
Does the placement of the link/accordion hinder the basic task?
Do people using AT have any other difficulties on the screens?
Goal 2: Determine which of two different designs is more effective for presenting education content around maximum standard ratings.
Do people notice the link or accordion?
Do they click on it without prompting?
With the accordion, do they notice both headings? What do they think about the two separate accordions?
Do they know how to expand the accordion?
With the text link, what happens when they open the new screen with explanatory content?
Is it disorienting?
Can they figure out how to get back to the application?
Do they hesitate to open the link?
Do they understand what the icon means?
Which design do they prefer, and why?
Goal 3: Assess how well the explanatory content works for Veterans.
Is the content clear and informative? 
How does the content influence their thinking about their chance of getting an increase?
Does it help Veterans make a more confident decision about whether to file a CFI for Tinnitus?
Does the content help them feel that the VA is on their side?
Methodology
We will use a scenario-based test format to assess the usability of two different prototypes. The scenarios will contain short sequences of a few screens, and they’ll be based on existing screens in the online 526 application or within the authenticated VA.gov experience. Because the prototypes are built in HTML (using Codepen), they’ll be available in both small-screen (mobile phone) and large-screen formats. We’ll rotate the order of the two different prototypes to avoid biasing the results.
Location
The sessions will be conducted remotely via Zoom.
Research materials
Conversation guide
Prototype
Recruitment
Recruitment approach
We are looking for 6 Veterans to participate in this study, 3 of whom use assistive technology and 3 who do not. We’ll target other demographic criteria (education, cognitive disability, and gender) as primary sample distribution criteria, with age and race/ethnicity as a secondary sample distribution criteria.
Recruitment criteria
List the total number and type (Veterans, caregivers, etc.) of participants for this study: 8 Veterans (includes a 25% over-recruit)
Primary criteria (must-haves)
What demographics, experience, and scenarios do you need participants to meet to effectively run your study? 
All participants have used VA.gov to file a claim (disability, pension, or other)
All participants are receiving disability compensation from the VA
3 Veterans who use assistive technology (AT) such as screen readers (AT/reader) or magnifiers (AT/magnifier), of whom at least two use a screen reader.
At least 1 but no more than 3 Veterans who identify as having a cognitive disability.
At least 2 Veterans without a college degree
No doctors or lawyers
Secondary criteria (nice-to-haves)
What criteria would strengthen your results? 
We’d like a mix of genders, age, and race/ethnicity. 
At least 1 but no more than 4 Veterans who identify as a gender other than male. 
At least 1 but no more than 4 Veterans over 55 years old. 
At least 1 Veteran under 35 years old.
At least 2 Veterans who are not White/Caucasian.
Screener questions
Have you ever used the VA.gov website to file a claim for disability, pension, or life insurance?
Yes/No (Exclude anyone who answers “No”)
Are you receiving disability compensation from the VA? If so, what is your overall disability rating?
I am not receiving any disability compensation from the VA (Exclude)
I have a service-connected disability, and my overall rating is 0% (Exclude)
I have a service-connected disability, and my overall rating is more than between 1% and 100%
I’m not sure (Exclude)
Do you require a screen reader to use the internet due to low vision or blindness?
Yes/No (“Yes” qualifies as AT/reader user)
Do you require a screen magnifier to use the internet due to low vision?
Yes/No (“Yes” qualifies as AT/magnifier user)
If you use a screen reader or magnifier, are you willing to join the Zoom session using this assistive technology?
Yes/No/Does not apply to me (Exclude “No”)
If applicable, what is the name of the screen reader or magnifier technology you will use during the session?
Free text (If they are an AT user, but don’t enter this field, exclude)
Do you have a college degree?
Yes/No (At least 2 who answer “No”)
Are you trained as a lawyer (JD) or medical doctor (MD)?
Yes/No (exclude anyone who answers “Yes”)
Have you been diagnosed (formally or informally) with a cognitive disability? This includes any intellectual disability, brain injury, learning disability such as dyslexia, ADHD, Autism Spectrum Disorder, severe persistent mental illness, stroke, Alzheimer’s disease or dementias, or others not listed. (We ask this question because we want to make sure that our tools work for people who have challenges like these.)
Yes/No/I prefer not to answer
Based on your response to the previous question, how would you rate the severity of your cognitive disability? (Recruit all answers)
Mild - Symptoms have a limited effect on daily life
Moderate – Symptoms make daily life much more difficult than my peers.
Severe - Symptoms make daily life extremely difficult and I require assistance.
I prefer not to answer
Not applicable
Timeline
Mon. 1/15		Complete prototype, recruiting criteria, and conversation guide
Mon 1/15		Submit research review ticket to Shane
Tue 1/16		Recruiting request to Perigean
Wed. 1/24		Pilot test
Mon. 1/29 - Fri. 2/2	Conduct testing 
Prepare
When will the thing you are testing be finalized? 
Jan. 15, 2024

Pilot session information 
* Pilot participant name: TBD
* Pilot participant email: TBD
* Date and time of pilot session: TBD
Length of sessions
* Session length: <1 hour
* Buffer time between sessions: 30 minutes 
* Maximum Sessions per day: 3
Availability
Monday, Jan 29
9am - 2pm ET
4pm - 5pm ET
Tuesday, Jan 30
9am - 2:30pm ET
4pm - 5pm ET
Wednesday, Jan 31
9am - 5pm ET
Thursday, Feb 1
9am - 1:30pm ET
Friday, Feb 2
9am - 2pm ET
3pm - 5pm ET
Team Roles
Below is the list of the people serving in each role and their contact information:
Moderator: Christine Steiffer, Kim Ladin, or Carolyn Dew
Research guide writing and task development: Kim Ladin, Christine Steiffer
Participant recruiting & screening: Perigean
Project point of contact: Christine Steiffer
Participant(s) for pilot test: TBD
Accessibility specialist (for sessions where support for assistive technology may be needed): CAIA
Note-takers: Christine Steiffer, Kim Ladin, Carolyn Dew, Amy Lai
Observers: CAIA team members, Christine Steiffer, Kim Ladin, Carolyn Dew, Amy Lai, Shannon Ford, Jennifer Bertsch (For AT sessions, both observer slots will be used by CAIA).
Contact info:
Christine Steiffer 	christine.steiffer@agile6.com	571-282-9104	
Carolyn Dew 		carolyn@navapbc.com
Kim Ladin		kimladin@navapbc.com		408-250-0036
Amy Lai		amylai@navapbc.com
Shannon Ford	Shannon.Ford1@va.gov

