Research Plan for Ad Hoc CTO Support, Secure Messaging, April 16th, 2021
Goals
What product & team are you doing this research for? VA Mobile App Team, MVP Mobile App.
Background: We know that Veterans can have strong feelings about the tools they are familiar with. We’d like to understand how the way we refer to existing tools in relation to the new mobile app sets expectations. How can we encourage trust and comfort without setting unrealistic expectations that lead to disappointed Veterans? .  
Research questions: What expectations come along with referring to MyHealtheVet in the mobile app? Does this improve trust or at least familiarity with the Secure Messaging feature? Does it bring expectations that other features like Rx Refills are already present? 
Is the usage of “Secure Messaging” without any MHV branding just as effective?
Hypothesis: We think that if we constrain use of the MHV brand to the Secure Messaging feature, it will not create unfulfilled expectations about other features like RX Refills that do not yet exist in the mobile app. 
Method
Card sort: remote unmoderated using an “Optimal Sort” workshop link. 
>50 participants. 
This method will allow us to collect sufficient quantitative data needed in order to inform our design. If we find that users expect features not in the MVP of the Mobile app, we will need to modify the design to ensure users have accurate expectations of the app. 
Participants and Recruitment
Recruiting strategy: 
Recruiting through Perigean. 
Participant criteria: 
Primary criteria / Must have:
While we ordinarily are looking for participants using assistive devices, this unmoderated study is not accessible. Please DO NOT recruit participants who need screen readers. (Screen magnification is okay)
All participants should regularly use a smartphone or tablet to interact with VA. But participants should participate in this study with a desktop computer.
All participants must have experience with MHV. 

We’re looking for a wide range of experience with VA services and are also using age as a proxy for identifying War Era segments. Since VA services have changed over time, we want to see responses from various age groups. We think they may have different levels of investment in VA brands based on the length of their relationship with VA.


18–24
25–34
35–44
45–54
55–64
65–74
75+
Individual groups of 10 that are A/B split between the branded and unbranded variants.
When?
Timeline: Friday, April 16th 2021 or as soon as possible
Prepare: The Optimal Sort is prepped and ready to be sent out. 
Optimal Sort link for Group A (Preview)
Optimal Sort link for Group B (Preview)
Optimal Sort link for Group A ( https://ows.io/os/6vbc0yzh )
Optimal Sort link for Group B ( https://ows.io/os/rgfrzv82 )
 
Length of Sessions: 5-15minutes
Availability: Participants can 
Pilot: Friday April 9th. Pilot Tester: Julia Snyder
Team Roles
Research guide writing and task development (usually but not always same as moderator): Melissa Lefevre Ayush Chakravarty Alex Taylor
Participant recruiting & screening: Perigean
Project point of contact: Alex Taylor
Participant(s) for pilot test: Julia Snyder
Resources
Project Brief: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/va-mobile-app
Synthesis Link to any documents used for synthesis (Mural or Realtimeboard boards, excel sheets, other data outputs, etc.)
Lessons Learned Did you have any takeaways from the process of this research round that you want the team to remember for the future? Document them here.
Read-Out/Results
Read-out presentation should live in the appropriate product repo and folder; paste a link to it here.
** Don't forget to add a link to your research folder to the research tracker! https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/research-history.md

