Hypotheses and Conclusions

Hypotheses or tasks for this research along with the conclusions you found If you conducted a usability test, list the success or task completion rate.

We tested two hypotheses with 2 different Cohorts in each:

- Hypothesis 0: Veterans find it easier to understand the benefits that are available to them and complete health care related tasks when there is one unified section to ‘get benefits’ and ‘manage benefits’.
	- H0 ENROLLED (Testing Completed, 5 Participants)
		- ("Maybe True", “Likely True”, “Definitely True”, “Likely False”, “Definitely False” or “Not enough information”) Why?
	- H0 NOT ENROLLED ( Testing OnGoing, 2 Participants)
		- ("Maybe True", “Likely True”, “Definitely True”, “Likely False”, “Definitely False” or “Not enough information”) Why?

- Hypothesis 1: Veterans find it easier to understand the benefits that are available to them and complete health care related tasks when there are two separate sections for ‘get benefits’ and ‘manage benefits’.
	- H1 ENROLLED (Testing Completed, 7 Participants)
		- ("Maybe True", “Likely True”, “Definitely True”, “Likely False”, “Definitely False” or “Not enough information”) Why?
	- H1 NOT ENROLLED ( Testing OnGoing, 0 Participants)
		- ("Maybe True", “Likely True”, “Definitely True”, “Likely False”, “Definitely False” or “Not enough information”) Why?


Key Findings

The 5-10 top findings from your study should be listed here. Write your findings so that if someone reads only these bullets they can leave feeling they got useful information and the study was worthwhile. Examples might be "Most participants used the Search field to find the form, and searched for the term 'veteran health'" or "Most participants struggled with the secondary caregiver section on the form".

[Key Findings still to come]


Details of Findings


Top Themes

We identified 3 Themes that were common to all users
	1. Goals: What the person is trying to accomplish as an outcome.
	2. Needs: Something a person needs to fulfill a goal.
	3. Pain points: A barrier or difficulty towards accomplishing a goal.

The top 3 Goals for all 12 participants in H0 & H1 Enrolled included:
	1. Flexibility
		1. "MYHealth is talking about ME, & the benefits I've used." (6)
		2. "I want it simple, I don't want to search  for it. I don't want to click 4 or 5 times." (5)
		3. "Once I'm eligible, then I can  just be focused on my H.C. I like having Admin stuff separate from MyHealth." (3)
		4. I want shortcuts to MY Dental & Refill prescriptions" (2)
	2. Simplicity
		1. "I found it bc I  just saw it before on another task" (8)
		2. "It seems wonky that CoPay & travel pay are together. One is where I'm paying the VA & the other is paying me. It's like reverse."
		3. "This one sort of threw me, if it said "Services VA Covers" It could be better, but it might be just me."
	3. Ease of Use
		1. "I like MYHealth, everything I need to manage my health, a one stop shop, all in one place."
		2. "I rely on a good search box. HC has so many shades of grey which makes it difficult"
		3. "I'd like to see Message your Dr rather than Messages. Spelling it out more then necessary may be better for the technically challenged"
		4. Want to Enroll in HC: "I don't know if there is another place to put it. You might want to have it higher up the tree, esp. if it's a first time user. Where I work we try to do this so we don't loose people. Esp. if this is my first introduction to the VA."

The top 4 Needs for all 12 participants in H0 & H1 Enrolled included:
	1. Need clear concise language & key words for labels (7)
		1. "I chose it because it said records"
		2. "Overall thoughts - labels were not my favorite, some drop downs were detailed enough to figure it out but also comes from experience working in MHV, but if I was clueless I would be totally confused" (5)
		3. "In my mind I'm looking for a mental health tab"
		4. Looking for MH:  "went to disability, tried about VA, then went to My health. Then went to health resources to make a selection"
		5. Eligibility: "definitely under my health and health resources, picked getting started with va health care, I'm assuming that's going to tell me."
	2. Needed more information first before making decisions such as Pay my bill (5)
		1. "I would go to appointments first to see if there was any kind of payments that was due. I could also see why I was seen and see what each thing is being charged, so I would not need to click back and forth to see why I was there and what I was charged. "
		2. "If I owed it okay great, but I want to know why I am being charged. When you are a Veteran, you really do not think you would have a co-pay."
		3. "Didn't make sense to have eligibility and apply under My health tab"
		4. "I think before someone applies for VA healthcare; they want to get more information. I wanted more information and from there you could apply from there. I would not go to apply now until I get an explanation on what benefits I would get, costs, if I would have to drive far, if I could get my family enrolled, I just want more information."
	3. Make Mental Health much more visible
		1. *You mentioned seeing mental health as its own tab, is there a way to make it more visible?* "On the home tab I would like to see the services that are available. The services should be listed because I wouldn’t know you are listing them together from looking at this" (7)
		2. "Would like to see dental and mental up higher, want to hit my health and see it right there"
		3. Chose health resources and getting connected to mental health support; didn't know that was an option, knew she could get care, but didn't know it was an option on the va menu.
		4. MH, "shouldn't be under "My health" because not everyone at VA has health care" 
	4. MY Health Tab is about me
		1. "I'm used to going to My health, but if I'm looking for if I'm eligible it wouldn't be there just yet"
		2. So my health is everything that has to do with you? "Yes."
		3. "The way I am looking at my health is if I am already enrolled."
		4. Why wouldn't you look under "My health"? "Because you are enrolling, you don't have a My health. I wouldn't think that would be an option if you're not enrolled yet."
		5. Service member benefits > active duty service members and health care. If you already had health care and wanted to see if you had dental would you go the same route? "No, I would go under my health."
		6. CoPay Rates: "went to about va > learn about VA, backed out; wouldn't think it would be under my health."
		7.  MH: Would it be beneficial to have it in both places? "Yes, only because you are dealing with 2 groups, people who have health insurance, and people who don't have health insurance but are dealing with mental health."
		8. "it wasn't a clear path…it says I have a new disability rating, why would I find it under My health?"
		9. "When you say my health, I am assuming that person has health insurance so outside of that I wouldn’t look there. If it was healthcare or VA healthcare because seeing my means myself.."
	5. Get Benefits vs Manage Benefits
			1. Community Care: health resources > getting care outside of va…"I don't know if that's really that valid, because if you're getting health care outside of the va you have to go through community care and it all starts with your primary care physician to put in a referral." (3)
			2. Medical Records Sharing: "there are two ways I think I can do it. The first way I have done it in the past is the VA Blue Button, print the records, and then send it to the non-VA provider. I think I can also do it by managing your electronic records."  


1. The top Pain Points for all 12 participants in H0 & H1 Enrolled included
	1. Main section headings unclear
		1. Service member benefits - what did you expect to find there? - "all the benefits you can receive as a Veteran" from being a past service member"
	2. CoPay Rates & Travel Pay Tab Confusing
		1. "I do not like copays and travel pay under the same umbrella. I would think that would need to be separated out [copays and travel pay]; still under my health it should just be its own tab."
		2. "Not everybody is going to pay a copay and not everybody is eligible to be reimbursed for travel."
	3. My Health tab is not where eligibility or benefits should be
		1. Apply for HC: "If I don’t have healthcare yet, then it wouldn’t be under my health because I am not in their system. It should be under benefits so I could apply for healthcare. My health is not the first one I would select because I am not enrolled."


1. The top Successes for all 12 participants in H0 & H1 Enrolled included
	1. Easy to find refill a prescription (12) > My Health >Pharmacy > Refill Prescription
	2. Easy to find communicate  with your Dr. (10) > My Health >Messages> Compose
	3. 
