  
So its from the perspective of a FAS agent giving pointers to a Vet filling out the FSR. The overall presentation is about the waiver process and how to apply, but I’ll keep this explanation to just the FSR portion and leave out the waiver stuff:

1.  Be clear in what it is. Explain it is called both an FSR, which stands for Financial Status report or VA Form 5655. What it is asking for is a “snap shot” of the Vet’s household monthly income. How much money comes in for their household each month? How much goes out, aka what are their bills, expenses, etc? What are their assets (like cars, stocks, property). We need to know after all their expenses are met, what, if anything, is left over for our collections. (keep in mind, our debts should be treated equally to their existing debts)

3.  At the top, be sure to at least fill out the SS in box 1. Tell them its location on the form (top left.)
4.  It is very important box 3 is filled out (located top right of the form). The vet must tell us what they are asking of us in this box. Very important!
5.  Section 1 is the Vet’s PII. Not just name and address, but dependents, and current or former employment
6.  Section 2 is the Vet’s/Spouse income. Boxes 13-15 refer to current employment (ie what do they bring in both before and after taxes). Box 16 is any government benefit (including VA ((comp, edu, pen)) and SS payments). Be sure to point out this box. Spouse’s income must be included. Remember this for the  _household_.
7.  Section 3 is their  _living_  expenses. Tell them to be as thorough as they can, we can’t consider what we can’t see. Even if they think we won’t count it, put it on there anyway and let us make that call.
8.  Section 4 is also important. Box 24a requires them to take their income in box 17 and subtract their expenses in box 23. 24b is what do they want to pay. $0 is always unacceptable! Tell them to come up with something, anything they believe is feasible
9.  Section 5 is assets, fairly straight forward and section 6 is additional debts but specifically long term installments, such a student loans, credit cards, layaway, rental places. No living expenses should be placed here, that is for section 3. Be sure to tell them to total this section up and include it in Box 22 on the first page in section 3, where it needs to be added to their living expenses for box 23, giving us the best snap shot of _ALL_  expenses.
10.  Section 7, if at any time the vet was in bankruptcy, we must know! Even if it was years ago, we are better safe than sorry
11.  Finally, section 8, where we must have a signature of the Vet _AND_  the spouse. Again, it may not be the Spouse’s debt, but this is a  _HOUSEHOLD_  form, we assume they are one economic unit. What is one spouse’s in another’s, regardless on how that works in practice.
12.  Overall, tell them not to be overwhelmed. We just need to know their financial situation to make the best determination. If they say most of it will be blank or zeros, that is ok. Some are not as filled as others. The more info they can provide, the more effective we can be. Tell them to carefully read the instructions, it is all laid out there. Encourage them to seek help if documentation like this causes stress. VSO are always happy to help or even family members. Direct them to our Debtman site, which also provides instructions. Be sure to mention NOT to fill this out in a browser, it will not save. The pdf must be downloaded to the device and then saved. And remind them to save copies!

Again, this is the rough notes I have for just filling out the FSR. I have also attached a great presentation provided by Raphel and Robert on how we analyze FSRs as well as the SOP we direct trainees to. Please let me know if you would like anything else! Thanks!
