Shared during 9.12.23 call center and help desk focus group call

Google Document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iv-O0RiaBG3rPC1eh9-Hys1P5HL7Go5fPyIk4a2Y9kE/edit

VA: Preparing for Sign In Changes on VA.gov

Version 2.0 DRAFT

Launch: TBD



Guide

Guide	2
Preparing for Sign In Changes at VA Overview	3
What sign in changes are happening on VA.gov?	3
Why are sign in changes coming to VA.gov?	3
Communication Campaign Schedule	4
This is a placeholder for the communication campaign schedule that was requested which is still under development.	4
Email Communications	4
Why am I receiving this email?	7
Can I still use a DS Logon or My HealtheVet account to sign in?	7
Unified VA.gov Sign In Page Updates	7
Where is the sign in button for [DS Logon or MyHealtheVet]?	8
When will DSL and MHV go away permanently?	8
How do I sign in to VA.gov?	8
What if I get an error message when I try to sign in to VA.gov?	9
What if I can’t sign in to VA.gov because my password doesn’t work?	9
Account Creation & Usage	10
Should I create a Login.gov or ID.me account to sign in to VA.gov?	10
ID.me is a commercially-owned account that also meets modern security standards. You can use your ID.me account to manage VA and other government benefits and services.	10
How do I create a Login.gov account?	10
I could not create a Login.gov account, what should I do?	11
What’s multifactor authentication and why does VA.gov use it?	11
How can I get help with creating an account?	11
How do I create an ID.me account?	12
Glossary of Terms	13


Preparing for Sign In Changes at VA Overview
What sign in changes are happening on VA.gov?
In the coming year, all VA websites will follow a new sign-in process through VA.gov with Login.gov as the recommended account and ID.me as an additional option for signing in.  Veterans will need to sign in using one of these two account types that meet new, stronger security requirements. 

To prepare for these changes, Veterans who only have a My HealtheVet or DS Logon account are being encouraged to create a Login.gov or ID.me account and sign in with one of these accounts the next time they need to access or manage their VA benefits and healthcare online. Veterans who already have an existing Login.gov or ID.me account are being encouraged to get in the habit of using those accounts to sign in to VA.gov now. 

Veterans will receive a series of messages via two main methods to inform them of the upcoming changes: 
Email Campaign Communications
Sign-In page updates

Email Campaign Communications will be tailored to two audiences:
Veterans who have not created a Login.gov or ID.me account
Veterans who already have created a Login.gov or ID.me account but their last login was with their DSL or MHV account

The following section on Email Communications will show what type of messaging Veterans will see if they do or do not already have a Login.gov or ID.me account.

All visitors to VA.gov will see the same sign in page updates, regardless if they already have a Login.gov or ID.me account.

If a Veteran should choose to continue signing in with My HealtheVet or DS Logon, and did not want to create a Login.gov or ID.me account, the Veteran will still be rerouted through ID.me to login to MHV and DSL. The Veteran will see ID.me pages, as that is MHV and DSL use security features provided by ID.me. However, this does not mean that they have a Login.gov or ID.me account. Please note the purpose of this document is to provide information on creating a Login.gov, should the Veteran need further help with their ID.me account, please to either the account service website: 
https://help.id.me/hc/en-us. Or call at 800-698-2411, and select 0 (TTY: 711).

Why are sign-in changes coming to VA.gov?
There are several reasons VA.gov is changing sign-in options. Veterans Affairs has a Commitment to Digital Modernization, an initiative committed to providing streamlined and secure access to all VA products and services. Additionally these changes are in line with two Executive Orders.
Executive Order on Preventing and Addressing Identity Fraud in Public Benefits Programs - These efforts will ensure continued fraud reduction and increased security for users, carrying forth President Biden’s call to action.
Executive Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government - In striving to improve the federal customer experience and security, trust is an essential building block and outcome integral to the digital modernization of Veteran Affairs. 

Communication Campaign Schedule


September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April
May
Unified VA.gov Sign In Page


















GovDelivery Email



















This is a placeholder for the communication campaign schedule that was requested which is still under development.
Email Communications 
Veterans will receive emails later this year to encourage them to create a Login.gov or ID.me account or sign in with one of these accounts if they already have access.

Email Communications for Veterans who have not created a Login.gov or ID.me account

Sample Email launching later this year



Text from email:
Veterans: Prepare for sign-in changes at VA

We’re sending this email to help you prepare for changes to how you sign in to VA websites to
manage your health care and benefits.

As we move toward a more secure sign-in experience, you’ll need to sign in using an account that meets our new, stronger security requirements. 

We encourage you to create a Login.gov account. Login.gov is a U.S. government account that meets modern security standards. You can use your Login.gov account to access all the same VA benefits, services and information you access today.

Create a free Login.gov account now, so you’re ready for the change!

[Create Account]

We’re here to help. Learn more about Login.gov and how to create an account. If you have a technical issue while you’re trying to create an account or sign in, call our MyVA411 main information line at 800-698-2411. We’re here 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


Email Communications for Veterans who have already created a Login.gov or ID.me account but their last sign in was with their DSL or MHV account



Text from email:

Veterans: Prepare for sign-in changes at VA

We’re sending this email to help you prepare for changes to how you sign in to VA websites to
manage your health care and benefits.

As we move toward a more secure sign-in experience, you’ll need to sign in using your
Login.gov account. Login.gov meets our new stronger security requirements and will give you
access to all the same information and services you use today with DS Logon.

Our records show that you already have an existing Login.gov account–try signing in now, so you’re ready for the change.

[Sign In to VA.gov]

We’re here to help. Learn more about Login.gov and how to create an account. If you have a technical issue while you’re trying to create an account or sign in, call our MyVA411 main information line at 800-698-2411. We’re here 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Why am I receiving this email?
You received this email in preparation for changes to how you sign in to VA.gov. In the coming year, all VA websites will follow a new sign-in process through VA.gov with Login.gov as the recommended account and ID.me as an additional option for signing in. Veterans will need to sign in using one of these two account types that meet our new, stronger security requirements. 

To prepare for these changes, Veterans who only have a My HealtheVet or DS Logon account are being encouraged to create a Login.gov or ID.me account and sign in with one of these accounts the next time they need to access or manage their VA benefits and healthcare online. Veterans who already have an existing Login.gov or ID.me account are being encouraged to get in the habit of using those accounts to sign in to VA.gov now. 
Can I still use a DS Logon or My HealtheVet account to sign in?
Yes. At this time, you can use your DS Logon or My HealtheVet account to sign in to VA.gov.  
Later this year and continuing into 2024, VA.gov will be migrating all services to be more easily accessible through Login.gov and ID.me account.
Unified VA.gov Sign In Page Updates 
New Unified VA.gov Sign in Page 


The updated Sign-in Page will launch later this year to 50,000 Veterans, before expanding to 100,000 and finally launching for all Veterans in September. The updates change the DS Logon and My HealtheVet buttons into links to decrease their prominence.

Where is the sign in button for [DS Logon or MyHealtheVet]?
While the sign in button for [DS Logon or MyHealtheVet] has been removed, you can still sign by clicking on “Sign in with [DS Logon or MyHealtheVet].”
When will DSL and MHV go away permanently?
In the coming year, to prepare, you are encouraged to try setting up a Login.gov or ID.me account.

How do I sign in to VA.gov?
You can sign in to VA.gov with any of these 4 accounts:
Login.gov
ID.me
My HealtheVet
DS Logon
If you don’t have an account, you are encouraged to create one with Login.gov or ID.me now by clicking on the “Create an account with Login.gov” or “Create an account with ID.me” on the sign-in page. 
What if I get an error message when I try to sign in to VA.gov?
If you get the message “We’re sorry. Something went wrong on our end,” take these steps: 
Clear your internet browser’s cookies and cache. Depending on your browser, you’ll find this information referred to as “Browsing Data,” “Browsing History,” or “Website Data.”
Make sure your cookies are enabled in your browser settings. Depending on the browser you’re using, you'll usually find this information in the “Tools,” “Settings,” or “Preferences” menu.
If you’re using Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge, and clearing your cookies and cache doesn’t fix the problem, try using Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox instead.
If you’re using Chrome or Firefox and it isn’t working, get the latest updates for your browser.
If you’ve taken these steps and still can’t sign in, call us at 800-698-2411 and select 0 (TTY: 711).
What if I can’t sign in to VA.gov because my password doesn’t work?
First, try resetting the password for the account you use to sign in to VA.gov:
Given that this is shared as a word document, do we need to include the full hyperlink?
Reset your password on the My HealtheVet website
Reset your password on the DS Logon website
Reset your password on the Login.gov website
Reset your password on the ID.me website
Note: If you need more support from Login.gov or ID.me, go to the account service’s website.
https://Login.gov/help/
https://help.id.me/hc/en-us
If you’ve taken these steps and still can’t sign in, call us at 800-698-2411, and select 0 (TTY: 711). We’re here 24/7.

Account Creation & Usage
Should I create a Login.gov or ID.me account to sign in to VA.gov?
We encourage you to create a Login.gov account.   
In the coming year all VA websites will follow a new sign-in process through VA.gov with Login.gov as the recommended account. 
Login.gov is a secure U.S. government account that meets modern security standards. You can use Login.gov to access VA benefits, services, and information in a single, secure account. And you can use your account to manage other government benefits and services (like Social Security benefits and federal job applications). 
You can also choose to create an ID.me account. If you do not have a state-issued ID, it is recommended you create an ID.me account.
ID.me is a commercially-owned account that also meets modern security standards. You can use your ID.me account to manage VA and other government benefits and services. 

How do I create a Login.gov account?
You can create your account on the Login.gov website. (secure.Login.gov)
Here’s what you’ll need to create your account: 
An email address 
A unique password that includes at least 12 characters 
When you set up your account, you’ll need to set up multi-factor authentication. 
You’ll need to choose at least 1 of these authentication options: 
Entering a security code from your authentication application 
Using your security key 
Entering a security code that you receive by text or by phone call 
Entering a backup code 
Using your federal government employee or military ID (PIV or CAC) 
The first time you sign in to VA.gov with your Login.gov account, we’ll ask you to verify your identity.  
Here’s what you’ll need to verify your identity: 
Your driver’s license or non-driver’s license state-issued ID, and  
Your Social Security number, and  
A phone number on a phone plan that’s in your name 
I could not create a Login.gov account, what should I do?
You can call the Login.gov Help Line 24/7 at 800-698-2411, and select 0 (TTY: 711). We’re here 24/7. You can also try creating an account with ID.me from the Unified VA.gov sign in page instead. (https://api.id.me/en/session/new)
What’s multi-factor authentication and why does VA.gov use it?
Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection on your account. It helps us make sure that it’s you trying to access your account—and not a hacker. It’s also sometimes called 2-factor authentication.
Each time you sign in to a VA website or app, you’ll use multi-factor authentication to verify you’re you. You’ll do this using a device that only you should have, such as your mobile phone. 
You’ll get a unique code by text message or phone call, or through another option you choose. Other options may include a supporting app like Google Authenticator, a security key, or backup codes. You’ll then enter that code to access your account. 
This way, even if someone were to guess or steal your username and password, multi-factor authentication can stop them from accessing your account. 
How can I get help with creating an account?
If you need help creating a Login.gov account, you can call the Login.gov help center at 844-875-6446 (TTY: 711). They’re open 24/7. You can also submit a help ticket on the Login.gov website.
How do I create an ID.me account?
You can create your account on the ID.me website. 
Here’s what you’ll need to create your account: 
An email address
A unique password that includes at least 8 characters 
The first time you use your account to manage your VA benefits or information, you’ll need to verify your identity. 
Here’s what you’ll need to verify your identity:
A phone number in your name
A government-issued photo ID, like a driver’s license, state ID, passport, or passport card 

Closing
These changes to how Veterans sign into VA.gov are a reflection of Veteran Affairs' dedication to ensuring an easy, seamless, and secure experience for Veterans to access their benefits and services. Catalyzed by Veteran Affairs’ digital modernization commitment, to provide streamlined and secure access to all VA products and services, ensuring Veterans have secure single sign on experience is paramount. Additionally, these changes align with two Executive Orders—Executive Order on Preventing and Addressing Identity Fraud in Public Benefits Programs and Executive Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government—that work to rebuild trust in federal government digital services and reduce fraud to ensure benefits and services are there for those that have served. 





Glossary of Terms
Login.gov
Login.gov is a secure U.S. government account that meets modern security standards. You can use Login.gov to access VA benefits, services, and information in a single, secure account. And you can use your account to manage other government benefits and services (like Social Security benefits and federal job applications). 



ID.me
ID.me is a commercially-owned account that also meets modern security standards. You can use your ID.me account to manage VA and other government benefits and services. 


Multi-factor authentication
Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection on your account. It helps us make sure that it’s you trying to access your account—and not a hacker. It’s also sometimes called 2-factor authentication.
You’ll need to choose at least 1 of these authentication options: 
Entering a security code from your authentication application 
Using your security key 
Entering a security code that you receive by text or by phone call, international numbers cannot be used 
Entering a backup code 
Using your federal government employee or military ID (PIV or CAC) 

Verification
The first time you sign in to VA.gov with your Login.gov account, we’ll ask you to verify your identity.  
Here’s what you’ll need to verify your identity: 
Your driver’s license or non-driver’s license state-issued ID, and  
Your Social Security number, and  
A phone number on a phone plan that’s in your name 
If you do not have a state-issued ID, it is recommended you create an ID.me account.
