Background
The CMS team is providing support for the Sitewide Content team’s resources and support pilot program. Our interest lies in determining the editorial workflow for the pilot participants since they have never worked in the CMS before. 

Program brief:

As part of digital modernization, we want to open up VA.gov's Resources & Support section of VA.gov to more VA content authors. To do this effectively, we need to create guidelines and processes around 3 areas:

Content strategy (for individual R&S articles and for using R&S as one tool within the broader VA content ecosystem)
Content quality assurance
Authoring experience

Resources and Support Author Pilot 
 
OCTO Objectives
By supporting the editor experience:
Veterans and their families can find a single, authoritative source of information
Veterans and their families trust the security accuracy and relevancy of VA.gov
 
Research Goals
We would like to understand more about the following:
What is new users’ experience like throughout the onboarding and migration process? How does it change over time?
Where are the pain points that could be resolved to make the process easier? 
Outcome
This research will identify areas for improvement in onboarding, content creation, and UI to make the content migration process more robust before rolling out to all Resources and support pages. 
Research questions
Before they begin the migration process, what experience do new editors have with using a CMS and with creating content? 
What assumptions do they have about how Drupal will work?
Do those experiences and assumptions affect their ability to use the CMS to migrate content?
Where are the pain points?
Where do editors go for support? 
Hypothesis
What do you intend to learn and measure from this study? 
From the VAMC upgrade, we know that new editors struggle when early communications are overly technical when it’s unclear what the value of the project is, and when they can’t get the help they need. 
We think the pilot participants will be somewhat suspicious of Drupal because it’s new, hard to understand, and imposes content restrictions. They may be resentful about doing “extra” work to migrate content. They may also be relieved to have more centralized and structured content– there’s less they have to think about. 
We think there will be confusion around what goes where and how content is organized on the content side. 
Our main hypothesis is:
If we work closely with new editors from the start (though the content planning group, live training, and close support from Sitewide Content), editors will have an easier time making the transition into using drupal, and their content will be higher quality. 
 
Other hypotheses
Hypothesis 7: A CMS dashboard could help R&S editors track and search the article library and provide a clear workflow for adding new content.
What we want to learn:
Would a dashboard be helpful?
Does a lack of dashboard-level orientation confuse the editorial workflow?
From the moment a user logs in, what steps do they take to complete the tasks?
What pain points exist in the CMS for the content workflow?
Do users know where to find what they need?
Hypothesis 8: Users will have difficulties understanding how the CMS content creation process relates to the front-end website and design.
What we want to learn:
What difficulties will users face as they move through the CMS to create their content?
Will users understand how editorial workflow displays on the front-end website?
How do users preview their work?
Is the node view in the CMS helpful to their mental model?
Hypothesis 9: Form inconsistencies will confuse editors and surface pain points that the CMS can help evaluate and address.
What we want to learn:
Do users understand the differences in the forms they are using?
Is the guidance within the forms clear?
What are the specific pain points within the forms?
Hypothesis 10: Users will have a hard time determining if their R&S content is unique while in the CMS.
What we want to learn:
Does the CMS taxonomy cause confusion during the content creation process?
How do users determine the content they are creating is unique?
Hypothesis 11: We will incur content, design, and technical debt as we move forward with existing R&S templates because we know that we ultimately want to structure content for greater flexibility and create-once-publish-everywhere (COPE) reuse.
What we want to learn:
What can we do now with the content types/components we have to help restructure content for better reuse in the future?
Method
Contextual research: Observe training sessions and group work sessions


Survey all participants at 3 points during the pilot: 
before Drupal training
In the middle of the migration process
After the migration is complete 


Semi-structured interviews with interested participants  
before Drupal training
In the middle of the migration process
After the migration is complete 
Location
Surveys will be completed async on Survey Monkey. The interview sessions will be conducted via Zoom and scheduled using Calendly. 
Recruitment approach
The intended audience is the product support pilot testers and content planning group. We will extend the interview invitation to all group members and work with those interested in telling us about their experiences before, during, and after the pilot. 
Recruitment criteria
The criteria for participation is that the participants must be a part of the Resources and Support Pilot program. They also must agree to talk with researchers about their experiences. The goal is to recruit 2-4 individuals to speak about their experiences. 
Timeline
The initial survey should begin any time before the participant is given Drupal Access. Interview #1 should happen within the week of training completion. Interview #2 will happen at the pilot midpoint. Interview #3 will be scheduled upon completion of the content migration. 
Research sessions
These sessions will occur between Q1 2022 and Q2 2022.
Length of sessions
Interviews will be scheduled for 30 minutes each.
Team Roles
Please list the people who will be serving in each role. Include the primary phone number for the moderator and the emails for the moderator, notetaker, and observers. If you need Perigean to take notes for you, indicate that next to Notetaker
Moderator: Suzanne Gray
Research guide writing and task development: Suzanne Gray and Erika Washburn 
Participant recruiting & screening: Suzanne Gray and Erika Washburn 
Project point of contact: Suzanne Gray and Erika Washburn 
Participant(s) for pilot test: staff in the Office of Community Care 
Note-takers: Erika Washburn 
Observers: N/A
