Text highlighted in yellow are latest edits made to the screens

Veteran Intake Screen 1: Intake Sign-in Page

What to bring > Select site > Confirm site > Registration Complete
H1: In-Person Identity Proofing
H1: Register to verify in person

What is in-person identity proofing?
In-person identity proofing is a way for Veterans to verify their identity for their Login.gov account at a VA Medical Center. 

Why verify? 
By verifying their identity, Veterans will upgrade to a more secure Login.gov account and obtain complete access to their healthcare and benefits on VA.gov.

What can I do in this application?
This application allows a Veteran to locate a site that offers in-person identity proofing, learn what they need to bring, and register themselves for a walk-in appointment.

H2: Sign in with your Login.gov account to begin.

[CTA: Login.gov]

If you decide not to verify your identity in person, you may exit the application by closing this tab at any time. 

Veteran Intake Screen 2: What to bring

What to bring > Select site > Confirm site > Registration Complete
H1: In-Person Identity Proofing

Identity Proofing is the process of verifying your identity. You have chosen to verify your identity in person at a participating VA Medical Center. If you decide not to verify your identity in person, you may close this tab at any time.

Please note that any form of ID you present must be authentic and not have expired. 

You will need to bring the following items with you:

H2: Confirmation Case Number
Once you complete the steps on Login.gov, we’ll generate a Confirmation Case Number that will be valid for 10 business days.

H2: Social Security Number
You do not need to bring your physical Social Security card.

You will need to provide VA staff with your Social Security Number so that they may verify your identity.

H2: Your State-issued ID
At this time, the following forms of identification are accepted:
A valid, unexpired state-issued driver’s license or identification card from any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia (DC), or other US territories (Guam, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico)

H2: Your email address
To make sure that we are verifying the right account, you will be asked to tell the proofing agent (the authorized VA staff member who will be helping you) the email address that you used to set up your Login.gov account and register for your walk-in appointment with. This should be a private email address that only you can access. Upon successful completion of in-person identity verification, you will also be asked to sign in to your Login.gov account using this email address at the end of the walk-in appointment.

[CTA: Continue]

Already have a case number? Click hereVeteran Intake Screen 3: Select site

What to bring > Select site > Confirm site > Registration Complete
H1: Choose a nearby site

At this time In-Person Identity Proofing is available by walk-in appointment only. Enter your postal code below to find participating VA Medical Centers near you.

[Enter postal code [CTA: Search]

[CTA: Continue]

[CTA: Back]

Veteran Intake Screen 4: Confirm site

What to bring > Select site > Confirm site > Registration Complete
H1: Confirm your selection

You have chosen to verify your identity at the following location:

Fayetteville VA Medical Center
1100 North College Avenue
Fayetteville, AR 72703-1944

Please confirm that this is a location you will be able to visit in the next 10 days before selecting 'Continue.' If you would like to choose another location to verify in person, please select the 'Back' button.

[CTA: Continue]

[CTA: Back]

Veteran Intake Screen 5: Registration complete

What to bring > Select site > Confirm site > Registration Complete
H1: Registration complete!

You have successfully completed registration for your In-Person Identity Proofing walk-in appointment. 

Your Confirmation Case Number is: C8302023

Your confirmation case number will expire in 10 business days. Visit your In-Person Identity Proofing site by 05/30/2024.

Your In-Person Identity Proofing site:
Fayetteville VA Medical Center
1100 North College Avenue
Fayetteville, AR 72703-1944
Main phone: 479-443-4301
Mental health care: 479-443-4301, ext. 65048

Please make sure you bring the following items:
Your confirmation case number
Your Social Security number (you only need to know your number; you do not need to bring in your physical card)
A valid, unexpired state-issued driver’s license or identification card from any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia (DC), or other US territories (Guam, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico) 
Your email address associated with your Login.gov account. You will be asked to tell the proofing agent (the VA staff member who will be helping you) the email address that you have registered your Login.gov account with. Upon successful completion of the in-person identity proofing process you will sign  in to your VA.gov account using the Login.gov account associated with this email address. 

What if I can’t make my walk-in appointment within 10 business days?
If you are unable to make it to your selected verification site within 10 business days (05/30/2024), you will need to complete the registration process again. You will receive a new Confirmation Case Number that will be valid for an additional 10 business days.

A copy of your confirmation case number and instructions for what to bring to the verification site have been emailed to user@usertest.com.

[CTA: Sign out]

Veteran Intake Screen 6: Confirmation email for In-Person Identity Proofing

SUBJECT:  TEST EMAIL: In-Person Identity Proofing Pilot Email

You're receiving this email because you've recently created a Login.gov account and chose the option to verify your identity in person.

Your Confirmation Case Number is: ######## (Please refer to the confirmation case number you wrote down)

Your In-Person Identity Proofing Location:
Fayetteville VA Medical Center
1100 North College Avenue
Fayetteville, AR 72703-1944
Main phone: 479-443-4301
Mental health care: 479-443-4301, ext. 65048


Your case number is only valid for 10 business days and will expire on xx/xx/xxxx. Appointments are walk-in only. 

You will need to bring the following with you:

Your confirmation case number.
Your Social Security number (you only need to know your number; you do not need to bring in your physical card).
A valid, unexpired state-issued driver’s license or identification card from any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia (DC), or other US territories (Guam, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico).
Your email address associated with your Login.gov account. You will be asked to tell the proofing agent (the VA staff member who will be helping you) the email address that you have registered your Login.gov account with. Upon successful completion of the in-person identity proofing process you will sign in to your VA.gov account using the Login.gov account associated with this email address. 

For more details on accepted ID types, visit: https://www.login.gov/help/verify-your-identity/accepted-identification-documents/

What if I can’t make my walk-in appointment within 10 business days?
If you are unable to make it to your selected verification site within 10 business days (xx/xx/xxxx), you will need to complete the registration process again. You will receive a new Confirmation Case Number that will be valid for an additional 10 business days. 


To learn more about In-Person Identity Proofing, visit here (No hyperlink provided as this is a test email).

This email is only a test. There have been no changes to your VA.gov account. Any actions taken here will not impact your VA benefits or services.
Proofing Agent Screen 1: Enter Case Number

[CTA: Languages]
H1: Enter Confirmation Case Number

Ask for the 8-digit Confirmation Case Number that the applicant received at the end of the registration process for their walk-in appointment. This unique number can also be found in the confirmation email that they received when they completed registration for In-Person Identity Proofing. The Confirmation Case Number is only valid for 10 days. 

Enter the number they provide into the Confirmation Case Number field below and press ‘Continue’.

If the applicant can’t find their case number, or if it is expired or otherwise invalid, they will need to create a new case number by signing into their Login.gov account and registering for a new walk-in appointment.


Confirmation Case Number
[text box]

[CTA: Continue]

Proofing Agent Screen 2: Confirm email

Confirm email > Validate ID > Input ID information > Verify in IAM toolkit
H1: Confirm applicant email

As an added layer of security, and to make sure that there has not been an error, you will need to ask what email address is associated with the applicant’s Login.gov account. This should be the email address that they used to set up their Login.gov account and appears at the bottom of the confirmation they received after registering for their walk-in appointment. For security, you should not share the information on this screen; only confirm if it is correct or not correct.

If you need help, use this script: 

In order to make sure that we are verifying the right account, I will need you to tell me the email address that you used to register your Login.gov account? You don’t need to sign in, I just need to verify this information before we get started. If you are unsure, this would be the email address that you received your walk-in appointment confirmation. If you have access to that email, your email address should appear in the confirmation email or at the bottom of the confirmation screen of the application if you printed that out as you were registering.

Confirmation Case Number C8302023 is associated with the following email address: 

user@usertest.com

If the email address provided by the applicant matches the email associated with the Confirmation Case Number, click 'Continue'.

If the email address does not match, click the ‘Back’ button and help the applicant create a new Confirmation Case Number.

[CTA: Continue]

[CTA: Back]

Proofing Agent Screen 3: Validate ID

Confirm email > Validate ID > Input ID information > Verify in IAM toolkit
H1: Validate ID

H2: Ask for photo ID

In order to verify their identity, ask the applicant for one of the following forms of valid ID:

State-issued driver’s license or identification card

Driver’s license or state-issued identification cards from all 50 states, the District of Columbia (DC), and other US territories (Guam, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico). 

Must be valid and not expired.

The following are NOT acceptable forms of ID at this time: 
Passport
Veteran Health Identification Card
Any ID that has an expiration ID and has expired
H2: Select ID Type

Type in and select the appropriate ID Type from the drop-down menu below and then click ‘Validate document’. You will NOT need to take a photograph of the Veteran’s ID. You will only be validating the authenticity of the document.

ID type
[ - Select - ]

ID state
[ - Select - ]

H2: Validate Document

Use the information below to validate the authenticity of the applicant’s photo ID. Once you have reviewed the ID and determined that it is valid, click the check box for ‘Validated document’ and then click ‘Continue’ to proceed to the next step.

Validate an [ID type selected] by looking for the following features:
Polycarbonate card body
Laser engraving
Changeable laser image
Tactile text
Inventory control number (backside)
Color photo (backside)
Rainbow printing (backside)
Identity barcode (backside)

For additional resources to help you validate the authenticity of state-issued IDs, you may refer to our DMV Driver’s License Guide.

Validate document

[CTA: Continue]

[CTA: Back]

Proofing Agent Screen 4: Fill in Information

Confirm email > Validate ID > Input ID information > Verify in IAM toolkit
H1: Fill in information

Using the applicant’s validated documents, fill out the form below. As you fill out the form, make sure with the applicant that the information is correct, but do not show them this screen. Click ‘Continue’ when this form is complete.

Required fields are marked with an asterisk (*).

Social Security Number*: 123-45-6789

First Name*: Mickey

Middle Initial: L

Last Name*: Mouse

ID Type*: State-Issued Identification

ID Number*: 1112223333

Date of Birth*: 11/18/1928

Street Address Line 1*: 123 Disney Land Ln

Street Address Line 2:

City*: Fayetteville

State, Territory, or Military Post*: AR
[ - Select - ]

ZIP Code*: 72703


[CTA: Continue]

[CTA: Back]

Proofing Agent Screen 5: Complete verification

Confirm email > Validate ID > Input ID information > Verify in IAM toolkit
H1: Complete verification
H2: Applicant Summary
Name: Mickey L Mouse
Social Security Number: 123-45-6789
DOB: 11/18/1928
Address: 123 Disney Land Ln, Fayetteville, AR 72703

To adjust the information in this summary box, click ‘Back’ and adjust the content in the form.

Instructions

You will need to validate that the applicant can be found in the Master Person Index (MPI) by logging into the Identity Access Management (IAM) toolkit. Do not close this window as you access the IAM toolkit.

Open a new window and sign in to the Identity Access Management toolkit. 
Search for the applicant by their first name, last name, and/or Social Security Number.
Confirm that the applicant’s profile exists in the toolkit and verify that the information matches the information from the summary.
If the address is not up to date, have the applicant change their address in their VA.gov profile
Type the Veteran’s Internal Control Number (ICN) from their profile in Identity Access Management toolkit into the Internal Control Number input box. 
Exit the Identity Access Management toolkit and return to the In Person Proofing application to confirm the applicant’s email and physical address one last time before pressing 'Complete.'


To complete the verification process, enter the applicant’s Internal Control Number and then check the box, 'Verified in Identity Access Management toolkit'. Confirm the applicant’s email and physical address one last time before pressing 'Complete.'

Internal Control Number
[text box]

Verified in Identity Access Management toolkit

Confirm email and physical address

The applicant will be receiving a confirmation email that their identity has been verified at the following email address: 

user@usertest.com

The applicant that they will be receiving a physical confirmation letter through the mail sent to the following address:

123 Disney Land Ln
Fayetteville, AR 72703


Please ask the applicant to sign in to VA.gov with their Login.gov account now. If sign-in is successful, click the ‘Complete’ button below to close out this verification task and the associated Confirmation Case Number.

[CTA: Complete]

[CTA: Back]
Proofing Agent Screen 6: Verify in IAM toolkit

H3: Confirmation Case Number: C8302023
Confirm email > Validate ID > Input ID information > Verify in IAM toolkit
H1: Verification task closed

You have completed all the steps of In-Person Identity Proofing for Confirmation Case Number C8302023. 

If you have not already done so, have the applicant sign in to VA.gov using their Login.gov account. 

You may close this application window now.



